# Screenprinting at the Tool Library
 
 On Thursday, October 16, I attended a T-Shirt Screen Printing workshop at the West Philly Tools Library. I returned home with two t-shirts with a hand-drawn screen-printed design of a heart-shaped latte! Though this was my second experience with screen printing, it was entirely different from my first impression. At the Tools Library, I saw screen printing in a new way—one that was communal, accessible at home, and provided ample room for creative freedom. I loved my experience so much that I even wrote a piece about it for the 34th Street Arts Section (it should hopefully go live soon)!
	Our instructor’s main agenda throughout the class was to expose us to the accessibility of screen printing, showing us it could be done at home with cheap or improvised supplies. While I first learned to screen print at an art camp three years ago with fancy screen printing materials, at the Tools Library, we shared ink and squeegees and used ten-dollar Amazon screens, a UV lamp, a hose, and a Tupperware bucket along the way. We each took turns using the materials as we waited for our designs to harden and dry, providing helping hands along the way.
	The class size was an intimate group of six; I was the youngest one there, the only college student. It was a refreshing experience to go off campus and immerse myself in a new atmosphere of creative-minded adults. I was fascinated to see the designs they dreamed up, and the universal support of the group made the class feel welcoming, encouraging, and community-based. The process felt more human than anything; it really spoke to the idea of humans behind modern mechanized processes like printing.
	Throughout this class, we underwent the entire screen printing process in an impressive three hours—at my art camp years ago, we spread the process out over an entire week. At the Tools Library, we turned to innovative materials like a food dehydrator and a heavy-duty heat gun to fight against tedious time delays. I learned creative new ways to print and found that there was room to improvise the process to fit time constraints. 
	The communal nature of the class was definitely my favorite part—we all played a role in each other’s printmaking process, especially when it came time to make the marks on our t-shirts. Someone held down the screen for the other person as they pulled ink across the screen, and then we worked together to hold the shirt down and carefully peel the screen away from the fabric. The process felt collaborative and like a team effort. I could not have successfully made clean prints without the aid of my peers. 
Throughout the class, we encountered certain setbacks—some of my peers’ designs didn’t successfully appear on the mesh screens after light exposure, and they had to start over. And without fancy clasps to hold our screens down, our designs occasionally didn’t align with the ink print’s original placement. Splotches of ink also appeared in unwanted areas on our white fabric—the process felt messy, and it felt human. I made two different versions of my design on t-shirts, and both times, they came out differently. I found my perfectionistic tendencies irked by the “failures” of certain aspects of my prints; the first time, the bottom of the cup was cut off, and the second time, the floating hearts barely showed up. This variation gave my t-shirts an endearing, human feel that was beautiful in an imperfect way. The humanity of the printing process shone through in the imperfections of my final products.
This workshop experience not only broadened my understanding of the art of screen printing but also encouraged me to think about the fashion industry in a more humanized way, highlighting the humans and artists behind every item of clothing we wear. Though the advent of Amazon and instant gratification in the fast fashion world has made t-shirt production seem detached and robotic, this process showed me that it can be slow, artistic, intricate, and communal. I feel a newfound understanding of the humanity behind design, manufacturing, and fashion production, and I now get to wear two shirts that I designed myself!
